Our project focuses on the problem of financial literacy and investment guidance for young people and beginners that do not know how or where to start. Many people our age want to start investing, but do not know where to start. Professional advice is expensive and information online doesn’t cater that well to people who don’t have any experience talking about money. To help bridge this financial literacy gap, our team created a program that helps people predict market conditions and help them understand how news events around the world affect stocks and forex prices and conditions. 

This project benefits students who want to get into the world of finance, beginner investors, and anyone that is interested in market conditions. By using AI we are able to make predictions that accurately predict the market 77 percent of the time. 

To build our program we used many AI tools, platforms and Machine learning methods. We first started off by listing the APIs we are going to use. We first made an outline of our product in a flow sheet style. Then we used APIs like Yfinance, Pytorch, Pandas, and most importantly, Quant lib. Then, we vibe coded using Claude code that we integrated into our terminal. Then we trained the machine learning on market data from OpenBB. 

The system works by obtaining data from the APIs and Data sources, which then send their data to the agents and Research and Development. Then, the agents each create a score and they combine to create the analysis that is given. Each agent goes over every stock in the SPY and QQQ daily and gives the best stocks that are most likely to jump up in price. 

The AI component is able to analyze market trends by identifying known statistical patterns that often appear before bullish or bearish movements. We combined AI agents that each identifies time series, pattern recognition, risk level, momentum, long term stability, and sentiment analysis. These all contribute a score that the system then aggregates and adds together to produce a market condition rating and potential stocks that are ready to make a major move. The system is able to explain why each stock was selected and why the market sentiment is the way it is. Throughout the months of backtesting, we found that our bot is correct 77% of the time for market sentiment and 80% of the time when choosing high moving stocks. Though this is not 100% even major investment banking firms are not perfect too. 

During development we faced many challenges. Two major challenges were machine learning and backtesting. Machine learning was very new to us and we had to figure out how to train each individual model in their respective field with what little resources we had. We were able to solve this problem by creating a Jupyter Notebook with a workflow that gathered data from many sources and taught each agent through a SQL file with stock market data. We were able to teach ourselves Machine learning through free resources such as youtube.

To verify accuracy we tested the models on new data that just came out and compared its prediction to what actually happened and had the AI log the expectation versus reality. We found that the AI was not perfect, but no model is especially with the “random” world of finance. Though it was not perfect it performed better than random guessing. On average our system correctly predicted short term market direction 80% of the time which is competitive with many hedge funds and other programs. 

If our team had more resources, we would make the system better by buying better data sources and more time frame analysis. Also, we would create pages for each global stock market and a page dedicated to forex and other indices, such as metals. Also, having access to other data sets such as sports would be helpful to predict games based on statistics, past data, and weather. With the creation of world wide prediction markets, the use of machine learning with data science can be effortless and have many uses.

Working on this project greatly deepened our understanding of AI, finance, and Machine Learning. We learned that AI can do great things when used for educational purposes. As a result our system includes disclaimers to users and focuses more on education rather than promises. Building this project helped us grow in teamwork, datascience, and limitations of AI. We believe this project is innovative in how it combines multiple models, sentiment analysis, and educational explanations for how events around the world affect markets world wide. 
